Rebbeca Marie Gomez (born March 2, 1997), known professionally as Becky G, is an American singer and actress. She first gained recognition in 2011 when she began posting videos of herself covering popular songs online. One of her videos caught the attention of record producer Dr. Luke, who subsequently offered her a record deal with Kemosabe Records in a joint venture with RCA Records. While working on her debut effort, Gomez collaborated with artists will.i.am, Cody Simpson and Cher Lloyd. In 2013, she released her debut commercial single, "Becky from the Block", to positive reception. Later that year, she released her debut extended play, Play It Again. Her second single and first in 2014, "Can't Get Enough", featured guest vocals from Pitbull and went on to top the Latin Rhythm Airplay chart in the United States.
Gomez achieved mainstream success with the release of "Shower", that same year, which went on to enter the top twenty of the Billboard Hot 100 chart. The single would go on to receive a multi platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting two million units sold in the country. Following the success of "Shower", Gomez released "Can't Stop Dancin'", "Lovin' So Hard" and "Break a Sweat" during 2014 and 2015, as singles from her then-forthcoming album. She embarked on a co-headlining tour with J Balvin during September and October 2015, spanning throughout the United States. She portrayed Valentina Galindo in two episodes of the musical television series Empire, contributing two new songs to the show's soundtrack. She released her first full-Spanish song "Sola" in June 2016. In July 2018, Gomez released "Zooted" (featuring French Montana and Farruko), as her first English-language song in three years. On September 27, 2019, she was featured on the "Chicken Noodle Soup" cover by South Korean rapper and dancer J-Hope of BTS. Her success has led her to collaborate with artists such as Daddy Yankee, Christina Aguilera, and David Guetta.
Gomez's debut studio album Mala Santa, released in October 2019, debuted at number 85 in the US Billboard 200, was certified 7× platinum by the RIAA Latin, debuted at number three in the Top Latin Albums, and spawned the two Billboard Hot Latin Songs top-ten entries: "Mayores" and "Sin Pijama". Her May 2022 second studio album Esquemas, debuted at number 92 in the US, including number five on the Top Latin Albums, and debuted at number one in the Latin Pop Albums; its third single, "Mamiii", became her highest-charting single in the US.
Her accolades include two American Music Awards, four ASCAP Latin Awards, four Latin American Music Awards, plus the honorable Extraordinary Evolution Award, six Premios Juventud, and four nominations from the Latin Grammy Awards.


== Life and career ==


=== 1997–2011: Early life and career beginnings ===
Gomez was born in Inglewood, California, the oldest of four children, to Mexican American parents Alejandra "Alex" (née Esquivias) and Francisco "Frank" Gomez. All four of her grandparents are from Jalisco, Mexico, while her parents and most of her family were born in the United States. Gomez has two brothers, and a younger sister. In December 2017, she revealed she has a half-sister. Gomez grew up in Moreno Valley, and at the age of nine her family lost their home and moved into the converted garage of her grandparents' house due to financial problems. Gomez began working part-time jobs to help support her family, doing commercials and voice over work. She had what she described as a "mid-life crisis" when she was nine years old, and decided she wanted to pursue a music career. She was quoted as stating:That was literally my mid-life crisis when I was nine years old. That's when I felt like, 'OK, I gotta get my life together. What am I gonna do?' I pushed that on myself at a younger age than the average kid because at the time my family had lost our home. I've always been more mature for my age, so I was already understanding what they were going through. And I just thought, 'How can I help them?' She initially attended public school, though had to undergo home schooling due to issues with bullying. She claimed that at one point she was jumped by multiple girls while in the restroom, and was a frequent target due to her jobs in the entertainment industry.Gomez appeared in the short film El Tux (2008) as Claudia Gómez and as Nina in the Discovery Channel television film La estación de la Calle Olvera (2008). She became a member of a girl group named G.L.A.M. in 2009, and later joined B.C.G., a duo with G.L.A.M. member Cristal G.  She filmed a music video as part of G.L.A.M. for a song titled "JellyBean" in 2009. During this time, Gomez also began recording herself singing and rapping songs using Garageband, and created a YouTube account to post covers of popular songs online. She also began writing her own songs, and by the age of thirteen had taught herself how to play guitar. Gomez befriended production duo The Jam when she was thirteen, who liked Gomez's written work. The trio began working on material together, resulting in the covers of six songs: "Otis", uploaded to YouTube on September 15, 2011, "Lighters", released on October 13, "Novacane", released on October 27, "Take Care", uploaded on March 1, 2012, "Boyfriend", released on March 30, and the song "Turn the Music Up", a sample of "Mi Tierra", uploaded on July 18. These songs were meant to be part of a mixtape, titled @itsbeckygomez, though this project never came to fruition. Her cover of "Otis" caught the attention of producer Dr. Luke, who had worked with artists including Britney Spears and Miley Cyrus, among others. Luke scheduled a meeting with Gomez, and asked her to play guitar for him; he later signed her to his Kemosabe Records record label, through RCA Records. In reference to her video clip for "Otis", Luke claimed "I would have signed her off that video alone. I was 100 percent in. She has so much personality and her voice just pops out of the speakers. Then I met her and discovered she could also sing and play the guitar and I thought, 'This is even better.' Then I found out she could write and it was like, 'What else are you going to tell me, that you're also Van Gogh?' Her potential is limitless." Shortly after signing with the label, Gomez began work on her debut album.


=== 2012–2015: Commercial success with music and acting ===

In August, while working on her debut album, Gomez released her first song, "Problem", featuring will.i.am, which was subsequently remixed into "Problem (The Monster Remix)" in September, for the Sony Pictures Animation film Hotel Transylvania; the song served as a promotional single and also appeared in the movie's end credits. Gomez and will.i.am filmed a music video for the song; it features Gomez wandering around a hotel with wil.i.am walking out of the walls while scenes from the movie also appear. She was featured on Australian singer Cody Simpson's song "Wish U Were Here", serviced as the second single from his debut studio album on August 7. She worked with British singer Cher Lloyd on the song "Oath", originally written by Gomez, released on October 2 as the fourth single from her debut album. The single had some commercial success, becoming Gomez's first song to chart on the Billboard Hot 100. The track was later certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting sales of 500,000 copies in the country. She also worked with Brazilian singer Michel Teló on a remix of his cover of the song "Ai Se Eu Te Pego", released on his UK EP on October 14. Four days later, Gomez uploaded a cover of American singer Kesha's top ten single "Die Young" on YouTube; portions of it were used in the official remix of the song which also featured American rappers Juicy J and Wiz Khalifa, and was included on the Japanese deluxe edition of Kesha's second studio album, Warrior released the same year.On April 8, 2013, Gomez released "Becky from the Block" as her official debut single. The song is a cover of American singer-actress Jennifer Lopez's 2003 single "Jenny from the Block". Gomez filmed a music video in her neighborhood, with Lopez herself making a cameo in the clip. Entertainment Tonight described the version to have "give[n] Jenny's NY-based tune a West Coast slant". Later, on May 6, Gomez released a new song, "Play It Again", for digital download. The track served as a promotional single, and was not an official single released by Gomez. On July 13, Gomez released her debut extended play, also titled Play It Again. The album contained five songs on the standard edition, and its name was chosen by Gomez's fans. Gomez later filmed a music video for the song "Built For This", released on November 13, which she directed on her own. In October 2013 she confirmed that she was already recording her debut album. "Cant Get Enough", which features a guest rap from American rapper Pitbull, was serviced as the lead single from Play It Again, released on June 4, 2014. The song went on to top the Latin Rhythm Airplay chart in the United States, marking her first number one single on a Billboard chart. Spanglish and Spanish versions for "Play It Again" and "Can't Get Enough" were released to digital platforms in their respective years. Gomez performed the former on the 2013 Premios Juventud ceremony, where she was also nominated for "Revelación Juvenil" (Young Revelation). She recorded the song "Quiero Bailar (All Through the Night)" (2013) with Mexican DJ trio 3Ball MTY, which sees Gomez rapping and singing in both English and Spanish. The song was used for their second studio album Globall.

Gomez released the song, "Shower" as the initial lead single from her then upcoming English debut studio album on April 23, 2014. The song proved to be a success for Gomez, reaching number 16 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in the United States. The song achieved chart success in numerous other countries as well, most notably reaching number eleven in both Australia and Sweden. The single went on to receive a multi platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), denoting two million units sold in the country. "Can't Stop Dancin'" was serviced as the next single from the album on November 4. The song failed to match the success of her prior single, peaking at number 88 on the Hot 100.Gomez opened for Demi Lovato and Katy Perry on select dates of their Demi and Prismatic world tours (2014–15) in both the United States and Mexico. Gomez featured on the song "Como Tú No Hay Dos" by Mexican singer-actress Thalía, released on January 7, 2015. On March 3, she released a remix with Colombian reggaeton singer J Balvin for "Can't Stop Dancin". she released a song titled "Lovin So Hard" on April 1, along with a music video consisting of homemade footage of Gomez and Austin Mahone, whom she briefly dated. On June 26, Gomez debuted a song titled "We Are Mexico" in solidarity with the Latin community in response to Donald Trump's remarks against illegal Mexican immigrants. She also performed at a tribute concert for the late Mexican-American singer Jenni Rivera. Gomez appeared as Valentina Galindo in two episodes of Empire, performing the singles "Do It" and "New, New" for the show's soundtrack. She released the song, "Break a Sweat" on August 20, the fourth single to be released from her then-album. Gomez embarked on a co-headlining tour with Balvin beginning on September 23 and ending on October 25; the tour spanned across the United States.  She later collaborated with Dutch DJs Yellow Claw on the songs "Wild Mustang" and "For the Thrill" from their album Blood For Mercy. She released "You Love It" on October 30, as a promotional single prior to the release of her debut album. That same day, Gomez was cast as Trini in the film Power Rangers (2017).


=== 2016–2018: Crossover to Latin music and films ===
Gomez traveled to Vancouver, Canada, to film Power Rangers. Filming occurred from February 29 to May 28, 2016. Gomez collaborated once more with Pitbull on the song "Superstar". The song served as the official anthem for the Copa América Centenario. Gomez decided to move to Spanish music in 2016, changing the course in her music career to the Latin music market. On June 24, 2016, Gomez released the single "Sola". The song serves as her first to be sung solely in Spanish and was planned to be the lead single from her then-upcoming Spanish debut album. The song achieved success on Spanish radio, reaching number twenty-four on the Latin Pop Songs chart in the United States. She featured alongside Puerto Rican singer Yandel in American rapper Lil Jon's single "Take It Off", released on July 22, alongside its music video; a Spanglish version was released the same day. On October 7, Gomez released "Mangú", her second Spanish song and follow-up to her single "Sola", after its premiere at the Latin American Music Awards. Gomez won the category for "Favorite Pop-Rock Female Artist" at the ceremony.
Gomez was featured on American producers Play-N-Skillz's both Spanglish and English remake versions of the 1994 song "Si Una Vez" by late Tejano singer Selena, alongside Mexican-American singer Frankie J and American rapper Kap G. The singles were released on February 24 and April 7, 2017, respectively. On February 20, Gomez teased the release of her single, "Todo Cambio", after posting a photo of herself wearing a wedding dress on social media. The song was released on March 3, although its music video was filmed in Spain in 2016. On March 24, Power Rangers was released, marking Gomez's feature film debut. She received public attention after it was revealed that her character, Trini, is queer, being the first film superhero to be from the LGBT community. She collaborated with Argentine singer Axel, on the single "Que Nos Animemos", which was released on June 30, as part of his album Ser. On July 8, Gomez began a countdown on Twitter for her single "Mayores", with Puerto Rican rapper Bad Bunny. The song was released as the first single from her debut album on July 14. Gomez stated that "Mayores" will mark the beginning of a "new era". The song became a mainstream success, reaching number one in Mexico, Spain, Romania, and nine Latin American countries, while reaching the top 10 in several others. It peaked at number three on Billboard's Hot Latin Songs chart and 74 on the Hot 100 chart, while also receiving a 46x platinum by the RIAA's Latin field. Its music video reached 100 million views in one month and has achieved over 2 billion since 2021. On September 8, Gomez was featured on the song "Todo Lo Que Quiero" from Yandel's fourth solo studio album #Update. On September 21, it was confirmed that Gomez would be the opening act for American girl group Fifth Harmony, for the Latin American leg of their PSA Tour, with shows in Argentina, Chile, and Mexico. During the group's performance in Argentina, Gomez was pulled off the stage by security after being confused for a fan when attempting to cover member Dinah Jane with the country's flag when her outfit was ripping apart. Gomez joined Dominican-American singer and long-time friend Leslie Grace on the song "Díganle", released on September 28, which was remixed a year later with vocals from Latin boy band CNCO. Gomez also collaborated with American violinist Lindsey Stirling as the featured vocalist on the track "Christmas C'mon", from Stirling's Christmas album, Warmer in the Winter, released on October 20. On October 26, she hosted along with Mexican actor Diego Boneta the Latin American Music Awards 2017 in Los Angeles, California.
On February 9, 2018, Venezuelan duo Mau y Ricky released a remix of their song "Mi Mala" with Colombian singer Karol G featuring Gomez, Grace and Argentine singer Lali. On the 16th of the same month, Jamaican rapper Sean Paul and French DJ David Guetta released the single "Mad Love" also featuring Gomez, which was co-written by Colombian singer-songwriter Shakira and included on the EP Mad Love the Prequel. On March 16, Spanish singer Ana Mena released the single "Ya Es Hora" with Gomez and American singer De La Ghetto. On April 20, Gomez released the single "Sin Pijama" with Dominican singer Natti Natasha. The song became another commercial success, peaking at number one in Bolivia, Chile, the Dominican Republic, El Salvador and Spain, reaching the top 10 of several countries in South America, peaking at number four on the Hot Latin Songs chart and at number 70 on the Hot 100. It received a Latin platinum certification in the U.S and reached 100 million views within three weeks of release; it has since achieved a 36x platinum certification and reached over 2 billion views on YouTube, being the most-viewed female collaboration on the platform. On April 27, Gomez was featured in a remix of "Dura" by Puerto Rican rapper Daddy Yankee, alongside Bad Bunny and Natasha. They premiered the song as a surprise performance at the Billboard Latin Music Awards. On June 15, Mau y Ricky released the song "Mal de la Cabeza" with Gomez, as a track from their album Para Aventuras y Curiosidades; its title derives from the first line in the song. Gomez returned to the English-speaking market after three years with the release of "Zooted" featuring Moroccan-American rapper French Montana and Puerto Rican rapper Farruko, which was made available for download on July 20. On August 2, Gomez released the single "Cuando Te Besé" with Argentine rapper Paulo Londra. It was certified 2x Latin platinum in the United States and is the first song to go number one on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. A week later, Gomez starred in the sci-fi adventure film A.X.L., which was filmed in late 2017; the movie received negative reviews from critics and, like Power Rangers, was a box-office disappointment. Gomez starred in the lead role in the animated fantasy film Gnome Alone, alongside Josh Peck; it was originally slated for release in theaters, but was only released in Latin America, Europe and Asia in April 2018. It was made available in Netflix on October of the same year. Gomez was honored by The Latin Recording Academy as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment. On October 19, Mexican singer Joss Favela released the single "Pienso en Ti" with Gomez, which features Regional Mexican, her first song in the genre. Later that month, Spanish singer C. Tangana released the song "Booty" with Gomez. The song peaked at number 3 in Spain and became the 93rd best-selling song in Spain in only two months. "Booty" was also certified double platinum in Spain and platinum in the United States. Its music video was nominated for Best Music Video at the 2020 Premios Odeón. On October 25, 2018, Gomez, Mexican singer Gloria Trevi, Grace, Puerto Rican actress Roselyn Sánchez and Mexican actress Aracely Arámbula hosted the Latin American Music Awards 2018 in Los Angeles, California. Gomez featured in "Lost in the Middle of Nowhere" from American singer Kane Brown's second album, Experiment. She featured on Puerto Rican producers DJ Luian and Mambo Kingz's single "Bubalu" featuring Puerto Rican rapper Anuel AA and American singer Prince Royce. The single was released on November 6, 2018, and became a Top 30 hit on the Hot Latin Songs chart in the US, and has since been certified 21x platinum by the RIAA's Latin field. On December 21, Gomez was featured in a remix of "Mala Mía" by Colombian singer Maluma, alongside Brazilian singer Anitta.


=== 2019–2021: Mala Santa ===

On January 18, 2019, Gomez officially made her return to English music with the release of "LBD", along with its lyric video. On March 1, Gomez performed a series of shows in Chile, starting with a headlining set at the Viña del Mar International Song Festival festival in Viña del Mar. On March 22, she released her next single "Green Light Go" to digital download and streaming. Gomez embarked on her self-titled tour, visiting Spanish-speaking countries. On March 28, Kane Brown released a Spanish version of "Lost in the Middle of Nowhere" with Gomez, along with a music video, and a behind-the-scenes clip with the English version. Gomez featured on Anitta's single "Banana", released on April 5, 2019. On April 19, Gomez released the single "La Respuesta" with Maluma. On April 26, Gomez released the single "Next to You" with British DJ Digital Farm Animals and Jamaican producer Rvssian. "Un Mundo Ideal", a bilingual version of "A Whole New World", was performed by English singer Zayn Malik and Gomez for the soundtrack to the 2019 remake of Aladdin. The song was released on May 17, 2019. On May 24, Gomez with Digital Farm Animals and Rvssian released a remix of "Next to You" featuring Nigerian-American singer Davido. On June 28, Colombian group ChocQuibTown released the single "Que Me Baile" with Gomez. She collaborated with Puerto Rican rapper Myke Towers on the song "Dollar" which was released on July 10. On July 12, Puerto Rican rapper Guaynaa released a remix of his song "Rebota" with American singer Nicky Jam and Farruko featuring Gomez and Panamanian singer Sech. On September 6, Senegalese-American singer Akon released "Cómo No" featuring Gomez, as the lead single from his album El Negreeto. On September 13, Gomez released the single "Secrets". On September 20, American rapper Saweetie released "My Type (Latin Remix)" featuring Gomez and Dominican rapper Meliii. On September 27, she featured on South Korean rapper J-Hope's song "Chicken Noodle Soup". The song contains lyrics in Spanish, English, and Korean, written by both in their respective languages. The music video for the song featured 50 dancers of different nationalities. That same day, she was appeared on Pitbull's eleventh studio album Libertad 548, on the track "Mala".
Gomez announced her debut studio album Mala Santa on October 8, 2019, calling it a "new era". She released title track as the fifth single on October 11, along with a visual released on YouTube. Mala Santa was released on October 17, 2019. The record includes new collaborations with Sech, Puerto Rican rapper Darell, Mau y Ricky, American singer Dalex, Puerto Rican duo Zion & Lennox and Farruko; each track had visuals which were released on YouTube on the same day of the album, except the previously released singles. She performed "Dollar" with Towers at the Latin American Music Awards the same day, and later performed a medley of "Mayores", "Sin Pijama" and "Mala Santa", after which Gomez was awarded the Extraordinary Evolution Award for her evolving work in a short span of years. The album received acclaim from music critics and debuted in the top five of the Billboard Top Latin Albums and 85 of the Billboard 200.On November 3, she hosted in the 2019 MTV Europe Music Awards in Seville, Andalusia, Spain. On November 10, Gomez was part of the song "Giants", as Qiyana, by virtual hip-hop group True Damage in League of Legends for the 2019 World Championship. On the same day, she was part of its live performance for the opening ceremony of the finals.
On January 31, 2020, Mexican pop singer Carlos Rivera released the single "Perdiendo la Cabeza" with Gomez and Puerto Rican singer Pedro Capó. On March 20, Gomez was featured in a remix of "Boys Ain't Shit" by Australian singer Saygrace. On April 13, Gomez released the single "They Ain't Ready". On April 23, Cuban reggaeton duo Gente de Zona released the single "Muchacha" with Gomez. On May 28, Mexican-American singer Chiquis and Gomez released the single "Jolene" a cumbia style Spanish-language cover of American singer Dolly Parton's song. On June 19, Gomez was featured on the song "Duro Hard" from American hip-hop group Black Eyed Peas Latin album Translation. On June 19, Spanish singer Abraham Mateo released the single "Tiempo Pa Olvidar" with Gomez. On July 10, Gomez released the single "My Man", and its video-game inspired music video features her and boyfriend Sebastian Lletget. On July 17, Pitbull released the remix to "Mala", with additional guest vocals from De La Ghetto. On September 3, Juhn released the single "Otro Día Lluvioso" with Puerto Rican singer Lenny Tavárez and Gomez featuring Dalex. On October 9, she was featured in a remix of "Latina" by Colombian singers Reykon and Maluma, alongside American rapper Tyga. On October 29, Gomez released the single "No Drama" with Puerto Rican singer Ozuna. On December 10, she was featured in a remix of "Qué Maldición" by Mexican group Banda MS and American rapper Snoop Dogg. On December 18, she was featured in a remix of "La Curiosidad" by Puerto Rican singers Jay Wheeler and Towers alongside American rapper Arcángel, Zion & Lennox, De La Ghetto and Puerto Rican rapper Brray.On February 22, 2021, Gomez released the single "Rotate" with Nigerian singer Burna Boy. The song was used in Pepsi commercials featuring soccer players, including Lionel Messi On March, she made a cameo in Natasha's music video for "Las Nenas". On March 4, Puerto Rican rapper Kevvo released the single "Te Va Bien" with Arcángel and Gomez featuring Darell. On March 5, Gomez collaborated with Puerto Rican record producer Tainy and American singer Trevor Daniel on "F is For Friends" for The SpongeBob Movie: Sponge on the Run soundtrack. On April 14, American R&B and pop group Emotional Oranges released the single "Down to Miami" featuring Gomez. On April 20, Natasha released the single "Ram Pam Pam" with Gomez, as a single for both of their second studio albums. They premiered the song on American television on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on May 17, 2021. On June 4, Gomez released the single "Fulanito" in collaboration with Dominican rapper El Alfa. On July 15, Argentine rapper Khea released the single "Only One" with Gomez and American singer-songwriter Julia Michaels featuring Jamaican songwriter and producer Di Genius. On August 26, Argentine singer María Becerra released the single "Wow Wow" featuring Gomez, included on Becerra's studio album Animal. On September 10, Mexican singer Sofía Reyes released the single "Mal de Amores" with Gomez, as the lead single of Reyes's second studio album of the same name. On September 16, Play-N-Skillz released the single "Baila Así" with Gomez, Thalía and Chiquis. On October 22, American singer Christina Aguilera released the single "Pa Mis Muchachas" with Gomez and Argentine rapper Nicki Nicole, featuring Argentine singer Nathy Peluso, which served as the lead single from her EP, La Fuerza and part of her album Aguilera. 
For her work on the album as a featured artist on the track, she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 23rd Annual Latin Grammy Awards. In November 2021, Gomez began hosting her own Facebook Watch talk show, titled Face to Face with Becky G. Her first guest was American singer Demi Lovato. On November 26, Gomez released song "Lo Que Yo Diga" from the Koati film soundtrack. On December 1, Gomez released the single "Bella Ciao".


=== 2022–present: Esquemas and Esquinas ===

In February 2022, Gomez released "Mamiii" with Karol G as the third single from her second studio album. The song debuted at number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaking at number one on the Hot Latin Songs, becoming Gomez highest-charting song. The song received nominations for the Favorite Latin Song at the American Music Awards, Hot Latin Song of the Year at the Billboard Latin Music Awards, Best Urban Song at the Latin Grammy Awards, Best Latin at the MTV Video Music Awards, and won for the Viral Anthem at the MTV MIAW Awards, Girl Power at the Premios Juventud, Collaboration of the Year at the Premios Tu Música Urbano, Latin Pop/Reggaeton Song of the Year at the iHeartRadio Music Awards, Song of the Year at the Latin American Music Awards, and Song of the Year at the Lo Nuestro Awards.In March 2022, Gomez joined American singer Joe Jonas and American choreographer Sean Bankhead to serve as judges on the MTV & TikTok American music competition series Becoming a Popstar. On March 24, Gomez alongside Natasha were featured on the song "Zona del Perreo" from Daddy Yankee's last studio album Legendaddy. Gomez released "No Mienten" on April 20, as the fourth single from her second album. On April 28, Regional Mexican group Marca MP released the single "Ya Acabó" with Gomez. She released "Bailé Con Mi Ex" on May 10 as the album's fifth and final single along with its music video.  Gomez released her second studio album, Esquemas, on May 13. The album debuted at number 92 on the US Billboard 200, including number 5 on the Top Latin Albums and number 1 on the Latin Pop Albums. The record featured new collaborations with American-Venezuelan singer-songwriter Elena Rose and Guaynaa. Gomez starred alongside Machine Gun Kelly, Mod Sun, Dove Cameron and Megan Fox in the film Good Mourning, released on May 22. On July 6, Argentine singer Tini released the single "La Loto", a collaboration with Gomez and Anitta, which serves as the seventh single from Tini's fourth studio album Cupido. On July 10, she hosted with Mexican TikTok star Jimena Jiménez in the 2022 MTV Millennial Awards in Mexico City. On September 16, Gomez released the single "Amantes" with Spanish singer Daviles de Novelda, which features bachata music, her first song in the genre. On October 13, Gomez appeared alongside Colombian singer Greeicy, Becerra, and Tini on a remix of Rose's song "La Ducha". Gomez was also named to Forbes' 30 Under 30 list in the music category.On February 14, 2023, Mexican regional quartet Fuerza Regida released the single "Te Quiero Besar" with Gomez. On March 1, she received the Impact Award at the Billboard Women in Music event. On March 10, she released the single "Arranca" featuring Dominican singer Omega. On March 30, she released the single "Chanel" with Mexican singer Peso Pluma, as the first single for her upcoming regional Mexican album. The collaboration, co-written by the duo with Tito Laija and Grammy-winning producer Edgar Barrera, narrates the story of a failed relationship. On April 1, she opened the pinnacle event of the WWE, WrestleMania 39, performing "America the Beautiful". On April 14 and 21, Gomez performed at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival. On May 9, Gomez announced her first headlining tour, titled Mi Casa, Tu Casa Tour. It is set to begin in Boston, Massachusetts, on September 14, and visit several cities in the United States. On May 12, she was featured in a remix of "I Ain't Worried" by American band OneRepublic. On June 2, Gomez released song "The Fire Inside" from the Flamin' Hot film soundtrack. On June 2, she released the song "Take It To The Top" with Nigerian singer Ayra Starr, from the deluxe edition of the American computer-animated superhero film Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse soundtrack. On June 28, Gomez released the single "La Nena" with Mexican singer Gabito Ballesteros, as the second single for her upcoming regional Mexican album. On July 20, Nigerian singer Kizz Daniel released the single "Cough" with Gomez. On August 16, Haitian DJ Michaël Brun released the single "Coming Your Way" with Gomez and English singer Anne-Marie. Gomez voices Khaji-Da, an entity inside Jaime Reyes' Scarab, in the DC Studios film Blue Beetle.On August 25, Gomez announced her upcoming third studio album Esquinas, it was released on September 28, 2023. The album will be Regional Mexican, her first in the genre, as a tribute to her grandparents, who emigrated from Mexico to the United States. The record featured new collaborations with American regional Mexican music singer Iván Cornejo, American singer DannyLux, American trio Yahritza y su Esencia, Mexican-American singers Ángela Aguilar and Leonardo Aguilar. Explaining its title, Gomez stated:

“I have always identified as not this side or that side of the streets that raised me, but the corner where two flags, two cultures, two languages meet.”
On September 14, Gomez released the single "Querido Abuelo". The single is dedicated to her grandfather who died in 2021. On September 28, a music video for the fourth single "2ndo Chance" was released on the Gomez's YouTube channel. The song features the singer Iván Cornejo. The music videos contains some cameos, including the all the artists that joined the singer in this album.


== Artistry ==
Gomez is described as a hip hop, pop rap, pop, latin, and reggaeton artist. Her debut studio album is a Latin pop and reggaeton record, incorporating elements of Latin hip hop and urbano. Her second album followed close, although focusing more on dance-pop and R&B sounds. Her third studio album focused on Mexican Regional music, a nod to her Mexican roots. Gomez is known for her versatility, often collaborating with different artists from different genres, such as country, EDM, K-pop, funk, among others.
Gomez has cited late Tejano singer Selena, American singer and actress Jennifer Lopez, Mexican singer and actress Thalía, late Mexican American banda singer-songwriter Jenni Rivera, Colombian singer-songwriter Shakira, American singer Christina Aguilera, and Brazilian singer Anitta as influences.


== Products and endorsements ==
Gomez began representing CoverGirl in July 2014. As the spokeswoman for the company, she filmed commercials to promote the brand and featured their products in her music videos. In December 2018, Gomez released a makeup collection called Salvaje with cosmetics brand ColourPop. In March 2021, Gomez collaborated with PrettyLittleThing, creating the Streetwear Pieces Collection. In June, Gomez launched her makeup line, Treslúce Beauty, which is distributed by Ulta Beauty as of March 2022. In 2023, Gomez collaborated with Patron Tequila. In June, Gomez joined swimwear brand Gonza as new creative director.


== Personal life ==
Gomez dated American singer Austin Mahone from February to August in 2015. In June 2016, it was confirmed that Gomez was in a relationship with American professional soccer player Sebastian Lletget. The couple announced their engagement on December 9, 2022. Lleget apologized for cheating allegations in late March 2023. No further statements from either parties have been issued.
While on tour with Fifth Harmony in October 2017, Gomez suffered an "out-of-control fan attack" while in Mexico City. Gomez took to Snapchat to speak about the incident and also revealed that she had been dealing with anxiety issues.


== Achievements ==

Gomez has won an iHeartRadio Music Award, nine Latin American Music Awards, and three People's Choice Awards. She has been nominated for a Billboard Music Award and six Latin Grammy Award. 
Gomez was honored as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment by The Latin Recording Academy in 2018. In 2019, Gomez was awarded the Extraordinary Evolution Award for her evolving work in a short span of years. Gomez was named to Forbes' 30 Under 30 list in the music category. In 2023, she received the Impact Award at the Billboard Women in Music event.


== Discography ==

Mala Santa (2019)
Esquemas (2022)
Esquinas (2023)


== Filmography ==


== Tours ==

Headlining

Mi Casa, Tu Casa Tour (2023)Co-headlining tours

La Familia Tour with J Balvin (2015) Opening act

Demi Lovato – Demi World Tour (2014)
Katy Perry – Prismatic World Tour (2014)
Fifth Harmony – PSA Tour (2017)
Enrique Iglesias – Enrique Iglesias and Pitbull Live! (2017)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official website 
Becky G at IMDb