Felix Delgado (born December 18, 1974), better known by his stage name Cuban Link, is a Cuban American rapper and original member of Terror Squad.


== Biography ==
Delgado was born in Havana, Cuba, in 1974. He and his family emigrated to the United States in 1980 during the Mariel boatlift, settling in the South Bronx in New York City. When Delgado was growing up, hip hop music was rising in popularity in his neighborhood. Delgado took on stage name Cuban Link and associated with fellow rappers Big Pun and Triple Seis in a group under the name Full-A-Clips.After Fat Joe signed to Atlantic Records and launched Terror Squad Productions in 1997, he signed Big Pun, which lead to Cuban Link's affiliation with Terror Squad. Cuban Link and Big Pun both made guest performances on The Beatnuts' single "Off the Books" in 1997 and they joined Fat Joe's Terror Squad by 1998. Cuban Link contributed guest appearance vocals to Big Pun's April 1998 debut album, Capital Punishment, on the song "Glamour Life". Following this appearance, Cuban Link was signed to Atlantic and Terror Squad and contributed guest appearance vocals to Fat Joe's September 1998 album Don Cartagena on the songs "Bet Ya Man Can't (Triz)", "The Hidden Hand", and "Terror Squadians". Link performed on the track "Tell Me What You Want" from Terror Squad's debut album, "The Album". After signing to Atlantic and Terror Squad, Cuban Link began recording his debut LP 24K. Big Pun died on February 7, 2000, so Cuban Link wrote and released "Flowers For The Dead" in Pun's honor. The album was scheduled to be released in the summer of 2000, however, without Pun's mediation, contract disputes between Fat Joe and Cuban Link and leaks prevented the release of 24K. 24K is now available for digital download on Amazon Music, but has not been released physically. 
In April 2001, during an album release party for Angie Martinez at Jimmy's Bronx Cafe, Cuban Link got in an altercation and had his face slashed when he was trying to break up a fight between Fat Joe and rapper Sunkiss. By that time, Cuban Link left Terror Squad. He released a mixtape, Broken Chains, in 2003 put together by Dren Starr & Roy P. Perez. He joined independent label Men of Business in 2005 and released Chain Reaction. It included singles "Sugar Daddy" (featuring Mýa) and "Scandalous" (featuring Don Omar) and combined some reggaeton sound as well.
It was the largest independent deal ($2MM) for a single album and an unsigned act, at the time and a joint venture with Universal.


== Discography ==

Studio albums24K (2000) (Unreleased)
Chain Reaction (2005)Collaboration albumsTerror Squad: The Album with Terror Squad (1999)


== References ==


== External links ==
Official Instagram