Irving Domingo Lorenzo Jr. (born June 26, 1970), professionally known as Irv Gotti (or DJ Irv), is an American DJ, music producer, record executive, and the CEO and co-founder of Murder Inc. Records. He is best known for producing multiple number-one records for Ashanti, Ja Rule, and Jennifer Lopez, as well as his collaborations with Jay-Z, DMX, and Kanye West. Gotti is also the creator of the BET series Tales.


== Early life ==
Irv Gotti was born in the Hollis neighborhood of the borough of Queens in New York City. 


== Career ==
Irv Gotti, under the moniker DJ Irv, produced the song Can I Live on Jay-Z's June 1996 debut album, Reasonable Doubt. 
In 1997, through Irv Gotti, Def Jam signed Ruff Ryders artist DMX. DMX's first studio album, It's Dark and Hell is Hot was released on May 12, 1998 and was co-executive produced by Irv Gotti. The album debuted and peaked at number 1 on the Billboard Top 200 and sold over 250,000 copies in its first week. The album went on to sell four million copies in America, being certified quadruple platinum by the RIAA, and sold five million copies worldwide.After helping Def Jam with the success of DMX and Jay-Z, Russell Simmons gave Irv Gotti his own label under Def Jam. While watching Biography on A&E during gangster week, a Murder, Inc. logo appeared on the screen and Irv Gotti decided to use the name for his label because Murder, Inc. put out hits for murder and Irv wanted to put out hit records.
Irv Gotti co-produced all of Ja Rule's 1999 debut album, Venni Vetti Vecci, as well as his 2000 second studio album, Rule 3:36. Irv co-produced Rule 3:36's singles Put It On Me and Between Me And You.
In 2002, Irv Gotti released Irv Gotti Presents The Inc, featuring much of Murder Inc.'s roster. Irv cop produced much of the album, including the album's hit single Down 4 U.
Irv, Ja Rule and the label of Murder Inc. were all involved in a well-publicized feud with G-Unit Records, Aftermath Records and Shady Records over history between 50 Cent and Ja Rule. After this Murder Inc. would change their name to The Inc. 
Under The Inc. banner, Irv would move the label to Universal Motown and sign Vanessa Carlton. Gotti co-produced Vanessa Carlton's third album, Heroes and Thieves, which was released October 9, 2007, with Channel 7, Rick Rubin and Stephan Jenkins.In an interview with Angie Martinez in early May 2009, Gotti stated that his label, Murder Inc., was leaving Universal Records.
In September 2013, Murder Inc. was relaunched as an umbrella label under Irv Gotti's new label, Visionary.


== Legal issues ==


=== Money Laundering case ===
On Friday, January 3, 2003, federal agents and New York Police Department investigators raided the headquarters of Murder Inc. Records, located at One Worldwide Plaza in Midtown Manhattan. The raid was a part of a yearlong investigation into the connection between The Lorenzo brothers and American drug lord Kenneth “Supreme” McGriff. Investigators believed that the Lorenzos launched Murder Inc. Records using drug money bankrolled by McGriff to launder McGriff’s drug money, as well as help McGriff launder drug money through the making of the 2003 film Crime Partners. Although computers and documents were seized, no charges were immediately filed, and no arrests were immediately made. The raid was dramatized in the music video for Ja Rule’s Murder Reigns.
Chris and Irv Gotti’s history with McGriff dates back to 1994, when McGriff, newly paroled from prison, met Chris and Irv on the set of a music video in Queens, New York. McGriff wanted to go into cinematography and sought help from Chris and Irv Gotti to produce and direct a film based on Donald Goines’ Kenyatta series’ novel Crime Partners. The Lorenzos since then maintained a friendship with McGriff, having him appear in the music video for Ja Rule’s 1999 single “Murda 4 Life” and helped finance McGriff’s dream project, Crime Partners, around 2000.
On January 25, 2005, Chris and Irv Gotti surrendered to authorities in New York City and were officially charged with money laundering and conspiracy to launder money. During the trial, Irv Gotti was represented by Gerald B. Lefcourt, and Chris Gotti was represented by Gerald Shargel. In December 2005, Chris and Irv Gotti were found not guilty of the charges against them.


== Discography ==


=== Singles produced ===
1994
"Shit's Real" (Mic Geronimo)
1996
"Can I Live" (Jay-Z)
1998
"Can I Get A..." (Jay-Z featuring Amil & Ja Rule)
"Hot Spot" (Foxy Brown)
1999
"What's My Name" (DMX)
"Holla Holla" (Ja Rule)
2000
"Come Back in One Piece"  (Aaliyah & DMX) 
"Between Me and You" (Ja Rule featuring Christina Milian)
2001
"What's Luv?" (Fat Joe featuring Ashanti & Ja Rule)
"I'm Real (Murder Remix)" (Jennifer Lopez featuring Ja Rule)
"Ain't It Funny (Murder Remix)" (Jennifer Lopez featuring Ja Rule & Caddillac Tah)
"I Cry" (Ja Rule)
"Always on Time" (Ja Rule featuring Ashanti)
2002
"Foolish" (Ashanti)
"Happy" (Ashanti)
"Down 4 U" (Irv Gotti featuring Ja Rule, Ashanti, Vita & Charli Baltimore)
"Mesmerize" (Ja Rule featuring Ashanti)
"Gangsta Lovin" (Eve (rapper) featuring Alicia Keys)
2004
"Breakup 2 Makeup" (Ashanti featuring Black Child) 
"Wonderful" (Ja Rule featuring Ashanti and R. Kelly)
2005
"Infatuated" (Memphis Bleek)
2008
"Nice" (The Game) featuring Newz
2018
"Violent Crimes" (Kanye West)
2019
"Brothers" (Kanye West featuring Charlie Wilson)


== References ==


== External links ==
Irv Gotti at IMDb