Moshe Reuven Sheradsky (Hebrew: משה ראובן), known professionally as Moshe Reuven, is an American rabbi, Billboard-charting artist, singer, rapper, songwriter, writer, Forbes 30 Under 30 entrepreneur, executive, and public speaker.
Sheradsky first received recognition in music when his debut single went viral on several social media and streaming platforms. Following the release of his debut, "You Are Not Alone", he signed to Create Music Group. The single managed to reach charts in five different countries, including becoming a Billboard certified single in the US. 
Sheradsky is a Hasidic Jew and is one of four Orthodox Jews in history to have signed to a major international music label.


== Early life ==
Sheradsky was born and raised in Hollywood, Florida. At a young age he was mainly known amongst family and friends for his abilities in basketball and math. Sheradsky wrote his first song at the age of 8 as a form of self-expression. In high school, he began making music with his friends and recorded his first songs with Mr. Cheeks’s former producer, Hayden. It was during his later years in high school and the beginning of college, at The University of Central Florida, that Sheradsky began to seek a more spiritual path, delving more deeply into Orthodox Judaism. Throughout his late teens and college years, Sheradsky began devoting time daily to prayer and Torah study. He received mentorship from various rabbis. Eventually, Sheradsky received his rabbinic ordination at the Rabbinical College of America in 2021, after spending multiple years studying in various yeshivas in America and Israel.


== Career ==


=== Writing and business ===
Sheradsky's first writings were published in The Huffington Post in 2017, and he made his first contribution to Forbes in 2018. In 2018 he joined the Forbes Technology Council and Young Entrepreneurs Council, invite-only councils for founders and executives in companies worth $1M or more. Sheradsky was primarily invited due to having been at the head of multiple technology startups, including his own, Wedu, that had reached $1M+ in revenue or capital raise, as either a founder, chief executive officer or CMO. He's been a founding member of three startups that have reached the $1M+ range for either metrics. From 2020 to 2021, he contributed as a writer for Entrepreneur magazine.In 2018, inspired by the teachings of the Lubavitcher Rebbe, Sheradsky began writing on topics of chassidus for Thrive Global and Live Kabbalah, as well on social media. He was appointed to this position after the founder of Live Kabbalah read his writings in Huffington Post and saw that he had a talent for blending Chassidic teachings with practical life. He quickly amassed a following, primarily on Instagram, sharing from Chassidus and regular day-to-day life via quotes and music. He became the only Hasidic Jew and rabbi on the platform to surpass 1 million followers.


=== Music career ===
In 2020, Sheradsky released his debut single, "You Are Not Alone". The song was aimed at helping those dealing with issues during the COVID-19 pandemic. The song had a local and international impact, with signs being placed alongside roads as a reminder to drivers, stating "You Are Not Alone". Over a year after its release, the song became a Billboard-certified single as part of a compilation that reached No. 22 on the Billboard charts for digital album sales.The success of "You Are Not Alone" caught the attention of a record executive at Create Music Group. He was then connected with their team's A&R reps, who concluded that they should sign him. Upon signing his first record deal, Sheradsky became the fourth Orthodox Jew to sign to a top record label, alongside Matisyahu, Alex Clare, and Shulem Lemmer. He's the only Orthodox Jew currently active on a top record label, with the others not actively releasing music with the labels they had signed to whether due to contracts running out or other reasons.In 2022, Sheradsky released the song "Say" with Julian Marley. Rolling Stone included Sheradsky in their Global Artist Spotlight, highlighting the song. Throughout the latter half of 2022, Sheradsky performed shows with as many as 3,000 and 5,000 people attending, as well as giving private performances throughout the United States. Sheradsky and Marley performed together in Florida for the first time in mid-December. In the same year, Sheradsky was included in the Forbes 30 Under 30 list. In August, Rolling Stone included Moshe in their Global Artists Spotlight List for 2022. In 2023, he additionally became a member of the Recording Academy.


== Discography ==


=== Singles ===
2020: "You Are Not Alone"
2022: "Say" (ft. Julian Marley)
2022: "Kids"
2022: "Wonderer"
2022: "The Flame"
2023: "Holding Up My Hands"


== Awards and nominations ==


== References ==


== External links ==
"Moshe Reuven youtube channel'"